# Link to video.

### CodeHS

In this course, we will be using [CodeHS](http://codehs.com) to write Python programs. CodeHS is a web-based programming environment. It is not the best programming environment, however we are using it since it can run on Chromebooks.

Here is what our programming environment on CodeHS looks like:

TODO

### Sandbox

TODO

### File Tree

The **file tree** is the list of files and folders that make up a program. For now our programs will just be one file called **main.py**. The **py** file extension is for Python files.

### Source Code Editor

The **source code editor** is the place where we type in the code for our program. In CodeHS, the source code editor is the window in the middle of the screen. The numbers along the left side of the source code editor are the **line numbers**.

The source code editor displays our code using **syntax highlighting**. Different parts of our code light up in different colours based on various categories. Different source code editors have different colour schemes.

The source code editor also helps us with **syntax errors**. **Syntax** refers to the rules of a programming language, similar to how grammar refers to the rules of a human language. We will see **red squiggly lines** when we have a syntax error, similar to how we see a red squiggly line when we mispell a word in a text editor such as Google Doc. We will also see **green squiggly lines** for warnings.

### Python Interpreter

Python is an **interpreted language**, meaning it uses an interpreter instead of a compiler. One of the main differences is that we can partially run a Python program with syntax errors, whereas in a **compiled** language we cannot run program at all if they have a syntax erorr.

### The Console

The **console**, also known as the output window, is the default location where text and error messages gets printed to. In programming, **printing** refers to displaying text somewhere on the screen.

The console is the black window and by default it's on the right side of the screen.

### Settings

We can click on the gear icon (⚙️) on the left side of the screen to access the settings. Here we can change things like the layout and font size.
