# [Link to video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ssl-yEZoYM&list=PLVD25niNi0Bkuz5cUyBsw_oCgwrKdzgDa)

### Conditionals

Boolean expressions are often used to check conditions. For example, we may want different sections of code to run depending on the values of specific variables at specific times.

A **conditional statement** only runs when a condition is met. We use Boolean expressions to create these conditions. 
In Python, a conditional statement has the following, in order:
* One of these keywords: `if`, `elif` (short for "else if"), `else`
* A Boolean expression (unless the keyword is `else`)
* A colon `:`

Each conditional statement is followed by a **block** of code. The block of code should start on the next line and begin with an indent.

* An `if` block runs if only if the `if` condition is `True`. 
* Any `elif` blocks run if only if all the previous conditions in the conditional structure are `False` and the `elif` condition is `True`.
* An `else` block runs if only if all the previous conditions in the conditional structure are `False`.

Here is an example of a **conditional structure**.

```python
number = int(input("Pick a number between 1 and 10: "))

if number > 10:
  print("Your number is too high!")
elif number < 1:
  print("Your number is too low!")
else:
  print("Thanks.")
```

In a conditional structure...
* We need at least one `if` statement.
* We can have zero or more `elif` statements.
* We can have only zero or one `else` statement. 
* If we have multiple `if` statements followed by an `else` statement, the `else` block will run if the condition in the most `if` was `False`. 

In general, if the conditions are mutually exclusive (i.e. they can't hold true at the same time), we should use `if` followed by `elif` rather than `if` followed by another `if`.

```python
number = int(input("Pick a number between 1 and 10: "))

if number > 10:
  print("Your number is too high!")
if number < 1:  # elif would be better here
  print("Your number is too low!")
else:
  print("Thanks.") # if we pick a number that's too high, this will print too
```
