[Link to video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LofYFiQMfYo&list=PLVD25niNi0Bkf2psAf7PzB1SV068XyNPo&index=23)

### Built-In String Methods

Here is [the full list of string functions already built into the Python](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#string-methods). The webpage says "string *methods*". A **method** is a function that uses **dot notation**. We write the value or variable, then a dot `.`, then the name of the function, then a set of parentheses. We might also put in more values of variables inside the parentheses, depending on how the method works.

Here are a few examples of these built-in functions:

The `.capitalize()` function changes a string by making the first character a capital letter and make all other letters lower case. If the first character is not a letter, it just changes all the letters to be lower case.

```python
print("HELLO".capitalize())  # prints "Hello"
print("1HELLO".capitalize())  # prints "1hello"
```

The `.title()` function changes a string by making the first character of each word capital letter and make all other letters lower case. If the first character in a word is not a letter, it keeps it the same.

```python
print("HELLO".title())  # prints "Hello"
print("HELLO there".capitalize())  # prints "Hello There"
```

The `.alpha()` function checks whether a string contains only letters of the alphabet.

```python
u = input("Enter your username: ")
if u.isalpha():
  print(u, "contains only letters")
else:
  print(u, "contains characters other than letters")
```

The `.strip()` function gets rid of all leading and trailing whitespace.

```python
print("     xy z ".strip())  # prints xy z
```

The `.endswith()` function checks whether a string ends with a particular substring.

```python
f = input("Pick a fruit: ")
if f.endswith("na"):
  print(f, "ends in 'na'.")

```

The `.replace()` function replaces all occurrences of a substring with another subtring.

```python
print("123123".replace("23", "32"))  # prints 132132

```

There are plenty of other useful string methods for us to discover.

We can combine two or more string methods by **chaining** then.

```python
print(" AbC123   ".capitalize().strip())  # prints Abc123
```
