# [Link to video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XWCBxSOo6LY&list=PLVD25niNi0Bkuz5cUyBsw_oCgwrKdzgDa)

### String Methods

Here is [the full list of string functions already built into the Python](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#string-methods). The webpage says "string *methods*". A **method** is a function that uses **dot notation**. We write the value or variable, then a dot `.`, then the name of the function, then a set of parentheses. We might also put in more values of variables inside the parentheses depending on how the method works.

Here are a few examples of these built-in functions:

### Upper Case and Lower Case

The `.capitalize()` function changes a string by making the first character letter upper case and make all other letters lower case. If the first character is not a letter, it just changes all the letters to be lower case.

```python
print("HELLO".capitalize())  # prints "Hello"
print("1HELLO".capitalize())  # prints "1hello"
```

The `.title()` function changes a string by making the first character of each word upper case and make all other letters lower case. If the first character in a word is not a letter, it keeps it the same. We saw this string method in the first programming exercise on Replit.

```python
print("HELLO there".capitalize())  # prints "Hello there"
print("HELLO there".title())  # prints "Hello There"
```

The `.upper()` and `.lower() functions change the casing of all the letters in a string.

```python
print("HELLO there".upper())  # prints "HELLO THERE"
print("HELLO there".lower())  # prints "hello there"
```

### Alpha and Numeric Characters

The `.isalpha()` function checks whether a string contains only letters of the alphabet.

```python
u = input("Enter your username: ")
if u.isalpha():
  print(u, "contains only letters")
else:
  print(u, "contains characters other than letters")
```

The `.isalnum()` function checks whether a string contains only letters of the alphabet and/or numeric characters. Numeric characters include numerals (i.e. 0 to 9), indices (e.g. ² and ₃), and vulgar fractions (e.g. ½, ¾).

```python
print("ABC123".isalnum())  # prints True
print("ABC/123".isalnum())  # prints False (the / is not alphanumeric)
```

The `.isnumeric()` function checks whether a string contains only numeric characters. 
If we don't want to include vulgar fractions, we can use `.isdigit()` instead. This only includes numeric characters that have one digit.

If we only want the numerals 0 to 9, we can use `.isdecimal()`. It's called "is decimal" because it checks whether each character is a digit in the decimal (base 10) system.

```python
print("1²₃⅘".isnumeric())  # prints True
print("1²₃45".isnumeric())  # prints True
print("12345".isnumeric())  # prints True

print("1²₃⅘".isdigit())  # prints False
print("1²₃45".isdigit())  # prints True
print("12345".isdigit())  # prints True

print("1²₃⅘".isdecimal())  # prints False
print("1²₃45".isdecimal())  # prints False
print("12345".isdecimal())  # prints True
```

### Removing Characters

The `.replace()` function replaces all occurrences of a substring with another subtring.

```python
print("123123".replace("23", "32"))  # prints 132132

```

The `.strip()` function removes all leading and trailing whitespace when we don't pass any arguments. If we only want to remove the leading whitespace, we can use `.lstrip()` (right strip) and if we only want to remove the trailing whitespace, we can use .rstrip() (left strip).

```python
print("     xy z ".strip())  # prints "xy z"
print("     xy z ".lstrip())  # prints "xy z "
print("     xy z ".rstrip())  # prints "    xy z"
```

If we pass an argument to `.strip()`, `.lstrip()` or `.rstrip()`, it removes that specific character at the beginning and/or end of the string.

```python
print("__hi__".strip("_"))  # prints "hi"
print("__hi__".lstrip("_"))  # prints "hi__"
print("__hi__".rstrip("_"))  # prints "__hi"
```

### Method Chaining

There are plenty of other useful string methods for us to discover.

We can combine two or more string methods by **chaining** then.

```python
print(" ABC123   ".capitalize().strip())  # prints Abc123
```
