# [Link to video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KvEp4A5B0vk&list=PLVD25niNi0Bkuz5cUyBsw_oCgwrKdzgDa)

### Loops

A **loop** is a structure that repeatedly executes a specified block of code. This process of repetition is called **iteration**. 

If we want to repeat specific lines of code a specific number of times, or until a specific condition is met, we can use a loop to accomplish that. 

There are two types of loops in Python: **_for_ loops** and **_while_ loops**. For now we'll just be learning about *for* loops.

### For Loops

A *for* loop uses the keyword `for`. We would generally use a *for* loop when we know how many times we want the block of code to run.

Here is an example of a *for* loop.

```python
for n in range(10):  # n stands for natural number
  print(n)
```
A *for* loop runs for a specific number of times. In this case, it runs 10 times since `range(10)` is a list of 10 numbers. The variable `n` represents the number we're currently on in the list. We can name the variable anything we want.

```python
for pancake in range(10):  # still works!
  print(pancake)
```

If we want to do something a specific number times and we don't need to keep track of which iteration we're on, the convention is to use an underscore `_` as the variable.

```python
for _ in range(10):  # _ means we don't care about its value in each iteration
  print("*")
```

### Nested Loops

When we have a loop that is placed inside another loop, this structure is called a **nested loop**. 

Here is an example of a nested loop.

```python
for i in range(10):
  for j in range(10):
    print(i, j)
```

The variables `i` and `j` are commonly used when we are looping using numbers. The `i` stands for "integer" or "index", and `j` is just the next letter after `i`. If we need more variable names we can continue down the alphabet.

In this example, the *for loop* that iterates on `i` would be referred to as the **outer loop**, and the for loop that iterates on `j` would be referred to as the **inner loop**. 

If we have a loop inside of a loop, which is already inside another loop, there would be two levels of inner loops.
