# [Link to video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_jbYryByz4o&list=PLVD25niNi0Bkuz5cUyBsw_oCgwrKdzgDa)

### Importing Modules

A module is a file that stores a collection of functions, classes (we'll see these later in this course), and global variables. To access these functions, we need to `import` the module. 

One of the Python modules is called `math`, which allows us to do some math beyond basic arithmetic, such as trigonometry and logarithms.

```python
import math
```

Now we can use the functions and variables in math by putting `math.` in front of them, such as `math.sqrt()`.

#### Square Root

We could find the square root of a number by raising it to the power of half.

```python
print(16 ** 0.5)  # prints 4.0
```

Another solution is to use `math.sqrt()`, which is easier to read.

```python
import math

print(math.sqrt(16))  # prints 4
```

#### Pi

We can use π too! However, due to float imprecision, the value of `pi` has only 15 decimal digits despite it being an irrational number with infinitely many decimal digits.

```python
import math

print(math.pi)  # prints 3.141592653589793

radius = 4

area = math.pi * radius ** 2

print(area)  # prints 50.26548245743669
```

Here is the full list of [Python libraries](https://docs.python.org/3/library/). A **library** is module, a collection of modules, or a collection of **packages** (which is a collection of modules).

### Selective Imports

If we only want to use specific functions from other files, we can use an import statement in the format: `from` filename `import` function. 

```python
from math import sqrt  # this allows us to write sqrt instead of math.sqrt

print(sqrt(16))  # prints 4
print(sqrt(0))  # prints 0.0
print(sqrt(-4))  # raises an error
```

If we use the format `from` filename `import *`, it imports all the functions and variables from the file. The asterisk `*` is a **wildcard character**. We should only use this when we are importing only one module so that we can avoid issues with variables and functions from different modules that share the same name.

```python
from math import *  # this imports everything from the math module

print(sqrt(16))  # prints 4
print(sqrt(0))  # prints 0.0
print(sqrt(-4))  # raises an error
```

