# [Link to video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iDBk8fEpiLI&list=PLVD25niNi0Bkuz5cUyBsw_oCgwrKdzgDa)

### While Loops

We generally use *while loops* when we know how to tell when the block of code should stop being running repeatedly.

Here is an example of a *while loop*.

```python
from random import randint 

secret_number = randint(1, 10)

while True:
  number = int(input("Guess the secret number from 1 to 10: "))
  if number == secret_number:
    print("Nice job!")
    break  # the loop stops running when it hits this break statement
  else:
    print("Nope. Try again")
```

A *while loop* does the following:

1. Checks to see whether the condition is met. 

2. If the condition is met, it runs the block of code (the lines that begin with at least one indent). If the condition isn't met, the block does not run. 

3. Repeats steps 1-2 repeatedly until the condition is no longer met in step 1 or unless it reaches a `break`.

In the example above the loop keeps running until the user correstly guesses the secret number. The condition is always `True` but the `break` will stop the loop when the user guesses the number correctly.

### Break and Continue

At any point in a loop, you can use the keyword `break` to get out of the loop. The keyword `break` is somewhat controversial in computer science since some programmers consider it bad form. I am not one of them. You may use it in this course.

The keyword `continue` is slightly less controversial, but again, I am okay with you using it in this course. When a loop is run and it reaches a `continue`, it skips to the end of the current iteration.

### Infinite Loops

If a condition is never reached, a loop may run indefinitely with no end in sight.

```python
while 1 == 1:
  print("Hello!") # repeats indefinitely since the condition is always true and there is no break
```
