### Lists

A **list** is a data structure that stores an ordered collection of items.

In Python, we can initialize a list by putting the items in square brackets and place commas between the items. For example:

```python
groceries = ["bread", "milk", "potato"]
```

In many programming languages, a list is allowed to store only one data type. However, in Python, a list can store different data types. 

```python
stuff = [2, "potato", True, 7.2, "c", float]
```

We shouldn't use the word *list* as a varible name since `list` is a data type and will light up in a different colour (on Replit, it will show up in light blue). 

If we want to initialize an empty list, we can use `[]` or `list()`.

```python
lst1 = []  # creates an empty list
lst2 = list()  # also creates an empty list
```

We can also cast a string to a list using `list()`.

```python
print(list("Hello"))  # prints ['H', 'e', 'l', 'l', 'o']
```

### Changing Items in a Lists

`list` is a **mutable** data type, meaning we can change the individual items in a list without needing to create a new list.

```python
lst = ["a", "b", "c", "d"]
lst[2] = "x"
print(lst)  # prints ['a', 'b', 'x', 'd']
```

`str` is an **immutable** data type, meaning we cannot change the individual charatcters in a string without needing to create a new string.

```python
s = "abcd"
s[2] = "x"  # raises an error
```

```python
s = "abcd"
s = s[:2] + "x" + s[-1] # s is a new string
print(s)  # prints 'abxd'
```

### Accessing Items in a List

Each item in a list is assigned an **index**. The index tells us which position the item is at. The first position is index 0, the second position is index 1, the third position is index 2, and so on.

**In computer science, we often start counting at 0 instead of 1**. Being "off by one" is a common phenomenon when programming.

When we want to access an item in a list, we can do that by calling the name of the list and putting the item's index in square brackets. For example:

```python
groceries = ["bread", "milk", "potato"]

print(groceries[1])  # prints "milk"
```

If we want to access the very last item in the list we can use `[-1]`. For example:

```python
groceries = ["bread", "milk", "potato"]

print(groceries[-1])  # prints 'potato'
```

If we want to check the index of an item, we can use the `index()` function. For example:

```python
groceries = ["bread", "milk", "potato"]

print(groceries.index("milk"))  # prints 1
```
