# [Link to video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MNoJv75pAx8&list=PLVD25niNi0BkyCc47RgZHKnmIh6nsupN7)

### Built-in Functions

A function takes an input and performs a sequence of steps to give an output. They have a name and are followed by a pair of parentheses. When a function is **called**, the inputs are placed inside the parentheses.

In addition to the string methods we used in *Input Checker*, we've also seen these built-in functions:

* `print()`
* `input()`
* `range()`

We can find the full list of built-in functions here: https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html.

We've also seen the following functions used to convert data types:

* `str()`
* `int()`
* `float()`

These are called **constructors**.  They create new **objects**. (We'll get to what that means in a later lesson.) 

### Custom Functions

You can create your own functions when there aren't any built-in functions that suit your needs.

Here is an example of a custom function:

````python
def slope(x1, x2, y1, y2): 
  """Calculates the slope from two coordinates"""
  return (y2 - y1) / (x2 - x1)
````

The keyword `def` indicates that we are **defining** a function. The function name here is `slope` and it takes four **parameters** (i.e. inputs), *x1*, *x2*, *y1*, and *y2*. 

The **signature** of a function includes the name of the function ans its parameters. The function signatre for the example above is `slope(x1, x2, y1, y2)`.

The keyword `return` indicates what value the function returns. This value is called the **return value**. In this case, the return value is the slope of a line given two coordinates: (x1, y1) and (x2, y2). The tab space before the `return` statement is necessary since it is a part of the body of the function. 

We can call this function within the same program to find the slope a line.

````python
print(slope(2, 0, 3, 9)) # prints -3
````

When we call a function that has multiple `return` statements, it will stop running as soon as it hits the first one. 

```python
def is_even(num):
  """Determines whether a number is an even number"""
  if num % 2 == 0:
    return True  # the number is even
  return False # the number is odd
  print("hi") # this line is never reached
```

If the program does not hit any `return` statement or a blank `return` statement, the return value is a built-in constant called `None`.

```python
def print_hi():
  """Prints 'hi'. Returns None"""
  print("hi")
  # since there is no return, the return value is None

def print_hello():
  """Prints 'hello'. Returns None"""
  print("hello")
  return None  # this makes the return value None

def print_bye():
  """Prints 'bye'. Returns None"""
  print("bye")
  return  # this also makes the return value None
```

**Parameters** are the variable names used in a function. 

**Arguments** are the values of the parameters you use when you are calling a function. In the example at the bottom of the previous table, the parameters are *x1*, *x2*, *y1*, and *y2* and the arguments are 2, 3, 0, and 9.
