# [Link to video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8VznsYLLbB8&list=PLVD25niNi0BlmvOqMeaJBWcLQyO_HUTDw)

### Coercion

Recall that a type conversion occurs when a value is changed into a value of a different but compatible type. 

The two categories of type conversion are explicit (a.k.a. casting) conversion and implicit conversion.

Implicit conversion is also known as **coercion**. In Python, coercion can happen when we perform an operation or function on two values that belong to different data types when they should be the same data type.

```python
total = 4 + 5.3 # 4 is converted to 4.0 before the two numbers are added
```

This doesn't work in every situation though.

```python
result = "The answer is " + 6  # this raises an error
```

### Boolean Coercion

Knowing that we can convert between common data types and booleans, we can write some interesting conditional expressions.

One common way of checking whether a string or list is empty is to check that its length is zero:

```python
if len(string) == 0:
  print("That's an empty string.")
```

However, we now know when that a string gets converted to a boolean value, it becomes `False` if and only if the string is empty. That let's us do this:

```python
if not string:
  print("That's an empty string.")
```

This may look unusual at first glance, but this is a common "trick" used in Python programs.

Suppose we are checking whether a number is a multiple of 5. Here's a straight-forward way to do this:

```python
if num % 5 == 0:
  print("That's a multiple of 5.")
```

However, we now know that when a number gets converted to a boolean value, it becomes `False` if and only if the number is equivalent to zero. That let's us do this:

```python
if not num % 5: # if num is a multiple of 5, we get the boolean expression `not 0`, which is `True`
  print("That's a multiple of 5.")
```

This is not common practice in every programming langauge. However, if you continue to learn Python after this course, chances are that you'll encounter boolean expressions like this in other people's code.
