# [Link to video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DP8T0vHq_eQ&list=PLVD25niNi0BmSZoy7atetbgODmero31pR)

### Coercion

Recall that a type conversion occurs when a value is changed into a value of a different but compatible type. 

The two categories of type conversion are explicit (a.k.a. casting) conversion and implicit conversion.

Implicit conversion is also known as **coercion**. In Python, coercion can happen when we perform an operation or function on two values that belong to different data types when they should be the same data type.

```python
total = 4 + 5.3 # 4 is converted to 4.0 before the two numbers are added
```

This doesn't work in every situation though.

```python
result = "The answer is " + 6  # this raises an error
```

### Boolean Casting

All values can be converted into a boolean value.

The golden question is, which values get converted to `True` and which ones get converted to `False`?

We can check that out by using casting using `bool()`.

Values that get converted to `True` are called **truthy values** and values that get converted to `False` are called **falsy values**.

```python
print(bool(0)) # prints False
print(bool(1)) # prints True
print(bool(-1)) # Prints True
print(bool(0.0)) # Prints False
print(bool(-3.5)) # Prints True
print(bool(6)) # Prints True
```

For numeric data types, `0` and `0.0` are falsey and all other values are truthy.

```python
print(bool("")) # prints False
print(bool("hello")) # prints True
print(bool("world")) # Prints True
print(bool("True")) # Prints True
print(bool("False")) # Prints True
```

For strings, the empty string `""` is falsey and all other values are truthy (even the string `"False"`).

Just as a sanity check:

```python
print(bool(True)) # prints True
print(bool(False)) # prints False
print(bool(None)) # prints False
```

Good. No surprises here. `True` is truthy and `False` and `None` are falsy.

```python
print(bool([])) # prints False
print(bool([1])) # prints True
print(bool((1))) # prints True
print(bool({})) # Prints False
print(bool({1:1})) # Prints True
print(bool(set())) # Prints False
print(bool({1})) # Prints True
```

For these data types, they are falsy if they are empty and truthy otherwise.

What about functions?

```python
def foo():  
  print(bool(print))  # prints True
  print(bool(foo))  # prints True
```

Functions are always truthy, regardless of whwther they are built in or custom.

To summarize, the following are all the default falsey values in Python:

* `False`
* `None`
* zero (e.g, `0` or `0.0`)
* empty sequences (e.g. `""` or `[]`)
* empty dictionaries

All other values are truthy.

### Boolean Coercion

Knowing that we can convert between common data types and booleans, we can write some interesting conditional expressions.

One common way of checking whether a string or list is empty is to check that its length is zero:

```python
if len(string) == 0:
  print("That's an empty string.")
```

However, we now know when that a string gets converted to a boolean value, it becomes `False` if and only if the string is empty. That let's us do this:

```python
if not string:
  print("That's an empty string.")
```

This may look unusual at first glance, but this is a common "trick" used in Python programs.

Suppose we are checking whether a number is a multiple of 5. Here's a straight-forward way to do this:

```python
if num % 5 == 0:
  print("That's a multiple of 5.")
```

However, we now know that when a number gets converted to a boolean value, it becomes `False` if and only if the number is equivalent to zero. That let's us do this:

```python
if not num % 5: # if num is a multiple of 5, we get the boolean expression `not 0`, which is `True`
  print("That's a multiple of 5.")
```

This is not common practice in every programming langauge. However, if you continue to learn Python after this course, chances are that you'll encounter boolean expressions like this in other people's code.
