# [Link to video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_1Wx0KmzWU4&list=PLVD25niNi0BmSZoy7atetbgODmero31pR)

### Recursion

Many of you have already taken, or are currently taking, the Grade 11 math course *Functions* (MCR3U) or *Functions and Applications* (MCF3M).

In math, a **recursive function** is a function whose definition includes the function itself. It requires at least one **base case**, which determines the edge of the domain.

In computer science, a **recursive function** is a function that calls itself within the body of the function. The base cases determine when the method stops running.

> For fun:
> 
> Search the word *recursion* on Google. What happens?
> 
> [See image](../Images/Recursion.png).

### Factorials!

A classic example of a recursive function is the factorial operation, which is denoted by an exclamation mark. The value *n!* is the product of all the natural numbers up to and including *n*. 

For example, *5! = 5 × 4 × 3 × 3 × 2 × 1*.

The base cases are  *1! = 1 * and  *0! = 1 *. The reason  *0! = 1* is the same reason why any non-zero number to the 0<sup>th</sup> power is  *1* – it's an empty product.

The full definition of *n!* is  *n! = n × (n-1) × ... × 1, 0! = 1! = 1*, *n ∈ ℕ*. 

The symbol *ℕ* represents the set of natural numbers. However, it is debatable among mathematicians whether 0 is considered to be a natural number. We can often figure out from context which definition of "natural numbers" is used.

We could write a method to calculate *n!* using a loop like this:

```python
def factorial(n):
  """Returns the value of n!"""
  assert 0 <= n and type(n) == int  # n must be a non-negative integer
  answer = 1;
  while n > 0:
    answer *= n
    n -= 1
  return answer
```

Or, we could write it using recursion like this:

```python
def factorial(n):
  """Returns the value of n!"""
  assert 0 <= n and type(n) == int  # n must be a non-negative integer
  if n == 0 or n == 1:
    return 1
  else:
    return n * factorial(n - 1)  # this is from the definition of factorial
```

### Fibonacci Sequence

Another classic examples of recursion is the Fibonacci sequence: 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 34...

The definition is *f(n) = f(n-1) + f(n-2), f(1) = f(2) = 1*, *n ∈ ℕ*. The base cases are *f(1) = 1* and *f(2) = 1*, which indicate that the first two **terms** are both 1. All other terms are calculated by adding the previous two terms.

We could write a method to calculate the n<sup>th</sup> Fibonacci number using a loop like this:

```python
def fibonacci(n):
  """Returns the nth term in the Fibonacci Sequence."""
  assert 0 < n and type(n) == int # n must be a natural number
  if n == 1 or n == 2:
    return 1
  previous1 = 1 # the n-1th term
  previous2 = 1 # the n-2th term
  for i in range(3, n):
    previous1 += previous2
    previous2 = previous1 - previous2
  return previous1 + previous2
```

Or, we could write it using recursion like this:

```python
def fibonacci(n):
  """Returns the nth term in the Fibonacci Sequence."""
  assert 0 < n and type(n) == int # n must be a natural number
  if n == 1 or n == 2: # these are the two base cases
    return 1
  else:
    return fibonacci(n - 1) + fibonacci(n - 2)  # this is from the definition of the Fibonacci Sequence
```

How does this work? Let's **trace** `fibonacci(4)` to see what happens. The => symbol is used to indicate what happens next.

`fibonacci(4)`    
=> `fibonacci(3) + fibonacci(2)`    
=> `fibonacci(2) + fibonacci(1) + fibonacci(2)`    
=> `1 + 1 + 1`    
=> `3`

Let's try again with `fibonacci(6)`.

`fibonacci(6)`    
=> `fibonacci(5) + fibonacci(4)`    
=> `fibonacci(4) + fibonacci(3) + fibonacci(4)`   
=> `fibonacci(3) + fibonacci(2) + fibonacci(3) + fibonacci(4)`   
=> `fibonacci(2) + fibonacci(1) + fibonacci(2) + fibonacci(3) + fibonacci(4)`    
=> `1 + 1 + 1 + fibonacci(3) + fibonacci(4)`   
=> `3 + fibonacci(3) + fibonacci(4)`   
=> `3 + fibonacci(2) + fibonacci(1) + fibonacci(4)`   
=> `3 + 1 + 1 + fibonacci(4)`   
=> `5 + fibonacci(4)`   
=> `5 + fibonacci(3) + fibonacci(2)`   
=> `5 + fibonacci(2) + fibonacci(1) + fibonacci(2)`   
=> `5 + 1 + 1 + 1`   
=> `8`   


### Euclidean Algorithm 

Recursion can be used to calculate the greatest common factor (GCF) of two integers using the identities `gcf(a, b) == gcf(b, a % b)` and `gcf(a, 0) == a`, where `%` is the modulo operator. This process is called the Euclidean Algorithm.

We could write a method to calculate the GCF of two numbers like this:

```python
def gcf(n, m):
  """Returns the greatest common factor of n and m."""
  assert type(n) == type(m) == int  # n and m must both be integers
  assert 0 <= n and 0 <= m  # n and m must be non-negative
  if m == 0:
    return n
  else:
    return gcf(m, n % m)
```

### Issues with Recursion

**Issue 1.** Recursion can be used to create efficient programs, but it can also be used to create inefficient programs. In the case of Fibonacci numbers, the number of recursive calls grows exponentially as the Fibonacci number increases.

**Issue 2.** There is also the issue of infinite recursion. Similar to infinite loops, an infinite recursion never terminates. This often occurs when the base cases do not actually cover all bases.

**Issue 3.** Sometimes, recursive functions can be rewritten in closed form (i.e. an expression that doesn't involve recursion). For example, this table of values can be expressed in closed form as *f(n) = 2n + 1, n ∈ ℕ* or recursively as *f(n) = f(n-1) + 2, f(1) = 3, n ∈ ℕ*. 

| n | f(n) |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | 3 |
| 2 | 5 |
| 3 | 7 |
| 4 | 9 |
| 5 | 11 |

When closed form is possible, it is more efficient to implement it without recursion.
