# [Link to video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8rlu5UyO64&list=PLVD25niNi0BmSZoy7atetbgODmero31pR)

### Approaches to Searching

How fast can you find the word "panda" in this **unsorted** grid? Don't use CTRL-F or ⌘-F!

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>cat</td>
    <td>goose</td>
    <td>dog</td>
    <td>lion</td>
    <td>bear</td>
    <td>snake</td>
    <td>rabbit</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>tiger</td>
    <td>deer</td>
    <td>fox</td>
    <td>elephant</td>
    <td>monkey</td>
    <td>fish</td>
    <td>pig</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>kangaroo</td>
    <td>donkey</td>
    <td>hyena</td>
    <td>chinchilla</td>
    <td>alpaca</td>
    <td>capybara</td>
    <td>horse</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>dolphin</td>
    <td>swan</td>
    <td>rhinoceros</td>
    <td>cow</td>
    <td>toad</td>
    <td>duck</td>
    <td>moose</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>turtle</td>
    <td>hamster</td>
    <td>otter</td>
    <td>giraffe</td>
    <td>zebra</td>
    <td>penguin</td>
    <td>leopard</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>frog</td>
    <td>llama</td>
    <td>goat</td>
    <td>eagle</td>
    <td>panda</td>
    <td>raccoon</td>
    <td>shark</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>squirrel</td>
    <td>bat</td>
    <td>sheep</td>
    <td>groundhog</td>
    <td>chipmunk</td>
    <td>aardvark</td>
    <td>camel</td>
  </tr>
 </table>

Now, try finding the word "llama" in this **sorted** grid. Again, don't use CTRL-F or ⌘-F!

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>aardvark</td>
    <td>chincilla</td>
    <td>duck</td>
    <td>goat</td>
    <td>leopard</td>
    <td>penguin</td>
    <td>snake</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>alpaca</td>
    <td>chipmunk</td>
    <td>eagle</td>
    <td>goose</td>
    <td>lion</td>
    <td>pig</td>
    <td>squirrel</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>bat</td>
    <td>cow</td>
    <td>elephant</td>
    <td>groundhog</td>
    <td>llama</td>
    <td>rabbit</td>
    <td>swan</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>bear</td>
    <td>deer</td>
    <td>fish</td>
    <td>hamster</td>
    <td>monkey</td>
    <td>raccoon</td>
    <td>tiger</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>camel</td>
    <td>dog</td>
    <td>fox</td>
    <td>horse</td>
    <td>moose</td>
    <td>rhinoceros</td>
    <td>toad</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>capybara</td>
    <td>dolphin</td>
    <td>frog</td>
    <td>hyene</td>
    <td>otter</td>
    <td>shark</td>
    <td>turtle</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>cat</td>
    <td>donkey</td>
    <td>giraffe</td>
    <td>kangaroo</td>
    <td>panda</td>
    <td>sheep</td>
    <td>zebra</td>
  </tr>
 </table>
 
How were your strategies different for an unsorted grid versus a sorted (i.e. alphabetical) grid?

### Binary Search Algorithm

A computer would use an algorithm called binary searching to search for an item in a sorted list. It would first check the middle item and if it isn't the item it's looking for, it would make a binary decision: keep checking in the first half or keep checking in the second half. It would then check the middle item of the "half" it chose, and continue this process until it finds the item. This is the most efficient way that a computer can search for an item in a sorted list.

To see for yourself how this works, you can play this [binary search game](https://sarahstrong.ca/games/binarySearch.html).
 
### Implementation

There are two common approaches to implement a binary search algorithm.

**Approach 1: Iteration**

* Keep track of a lower bound and an upper bound for the index of the item in the list.
* If the lower bound is equal to the upper bound, the item is either at that index or it's not in the list.
* In a loop, keep checking the middle item (half-way between the lower and upper bound).
  * If the middle item isn't what you're looking for, update the lower bound or upper bound depending on whether the item should appear before or after that middle item.
  * If the middle item is what you're looking for, you've found it!

**Approach 2: Recursion**

* If the list is empty, the item is not in the list.
* Check the middle item in the list. 
  * If the middle item isn't what you're looking for, repeat the entire process with either the first half of the list, or the second half depending on whether the item should appear before or after that middle item.
  * If the middle item is what you're looking for, you've found it!
 
