# [Link to video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sNTbl8uORVw&list=PLVD25niNi0BkMe4nxXTL4vFED06M6ccpg)

### Object-Oriented Programming

There are three programming methodologies: **sequential programming**, **procedural programming**, and **object-oriented programming**. 

* Sequential programming involves executing a program line-by-line, in order.
* Procedural programming involves calling functions that perform routines and can be called at any point in a program.
* Object-oriented programming (OOP) is a programming methodology that involves separating a program into separate modules (e.g. files or classes).

### Aggregation

Aggregation occurs when a class (called the **superclass** or **parent class**) has a field that is an object belonging to another class (called the **subclass** or the **child class**). For example, if we have a class called `BoardGame` which represents a board game, we might have a field that represents the dice that are used in the game from a `Die` class.

Aggregation is often referred to as a "has-a" association. In the example below, a `BoardGame` has-a `Die`. 

### Composition

**Composition** is another ways in which class can be associated with other classes. It is similar to aggregation, except the subclass typically cannot exist independely of the superclass. For example, if we have a class called `BoardGame` which represents a board game, we might have a field that represents the board that are used in the game from a `Board` class.

Composition is referred to as a "owns-a" association. In the example below, a `BoardGame` owns-a `Board`. Once the board game is over, the board doesn't serve a purpose anymore.

```python
from random import randint

class BoardGame:
    def __init__(self, board, *dice):
        self.board = board
        self.dice = list(dice)

    def __repr__(self):
        dice_string = ""
        for die in self.dice:
            dice_string += str(die) + "\n"
        return str(board) + "\n" + dice_string[:-1]

  def roll_dice(self):
      results = []
      for die in self.dice:
          results.append(die.roll())
      return results

class Board:
    def __init__(self, num_spaces = 100):
        self.num_spaces = num_spaces

    def __repr__(self):
        return f"Number of spaces: {self.num_spaces}"
    
    def __str__(self):
        return f"Number of spaces: {self.num_spaces}"

class Die:
    def __init__(self, num_sides):
        self.num_sides = num_sides
    
    def __repr__(self):
        return f"Number of sides: {self.num_sides}"
    
    def __str__(self):
        return f"Number of sides: {self.num_sides}"

    def roll(self):
        return randint(1, self.num_sides)

die1 = Die(6)
die2 = Die(6)
board = Board()
game = BoardGame(board, die1, die2)
print(game.roll_dice())
```

### Multiple Files

It's common for Python programs to have classes in separate or grouped Python files. We can import Python files using `import filename`, where `filename` is the filename without the **.py** extension. 

```py
from board_game import BoardGame # imports the BoardGame class from board_game.py
```

When we `import` a file, it automatically runs the file. This is what we need when we are using a function or a class from another file, but it can be a problem if the file contains lines of code outside classes and functions.

For example, if we have `import main` in another file and we are taking user input in **main.py**, then it will prompt the user twice.

To avoid this, we can ensure that the user input in **main.py** does not run through `import main`. The built-in variable `__name__` gives the name of the file you're in with double underscores around it.

```py
if __name__ == "__main__": # only runs from main.py and not from 'import main' in another file
    name = input("Enter your name: ")
```
