# [Link to video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Olp2e-Umjpw&list=PLVD25niNi0Bkrelmc-dxdpMzITt5YTBsc&index=16)

### Aggregation

Aggregation can be referred to as a "has-a" association and is a *weak* association. This occurs when a class (called the **superclass** or **parent class**) has a field that is an object belonging to another class (called the **subclass** or the **child class**). 

For example, if we have a class called `BoardGame` that represents a board game, we might have a field that represents the dice that are used in the game from a `Die` class. In other words, a `BoardGame` has-a `Die`. Once the board game is over, we can still use the dice for something else.

```python
from random import randint

class BoardGame:
  """A board game."""
  
  def __init__(self, *d):
    """A board game can have any number of dice."""
    self.dice = list(d)
    
class Die:
  """A die."""
  
  def __init__(self, num_sides):
    """A die can have any integer number of sides greater than 3."""
    assert type(num_sides) == int and 3 < int(num_sides)  
    self.num_sides = num_sides
  
  def roll(self):  
    """Prints a randomly generated integer from 1 to num_sides representing a die roll."""
    return randint(1, self.num_sides)
```

### Composition

Composition can be referred to as a "owns-a" association, and is a *strong* association. It is similar to aggregation, except the subclass typically cannot exist independely of the superclass.

Expanding on the previous example, the `BoardGame` class may require a `Board` object that serves no other purpose other than being a field of a `BoardGame`. In other words, a `BoardGame` owns-a `Board`. Once the board game is over, we're done with the board too.

```python
class BoardGame:
  """A board game."""
  
  def __init__(self, board):
    """A board game has a board."""
    self.board = board
    
class Board:
  """A board for a board game."""

  def __init__(self, num_spaces):
    """A board has spaces on it."""
    self.num_spaces = num_spaces
```

In some programing languages, aggregation and composition look slightly different when they are implemented. For example, in Java, C#, and C++, composition usually entails using a keyword (`final` or`const`) to ensure that the fields stay constant. In Python, there are no key differences between these two types of association when they are implemented.
